# Robotics_Software_Engineer
A repository for all the projects on Udacity's Robotics Software Engineer nanodegree coded in C++.
1) First project contains a custom built world with two robots running via Gazebo plugins.
2) Second project contains ros nodes that find a white ball in the world and drive the robot towards it. To run this project, clone the go_chase_it folder, and run "catkin_make" command in it. Then, run "source devel/setup.bash" in two terminals. Then, enter "roslaunch my_robot world.launch" and "roslaunch ball_chaser ball_chaser.launch". Move the white ball anywhere in front of the bot to make it move.
3) Third project contains ROS nodes that run the Adaptive Monte-Carlo Localization (AMCL) algorithm on the robot and the world build in previous projects. To run the project, clone the project, go inside catkin_ws folder and run "catkin_make". Then, in two terminals, run "roslaunch my_robot world.launch" and "roslaunch my_robot acml.launch". Finally, use the 2D Nav Goal in Rviz to set a goal and see the robot localize itself using Particle Filter.
4) Fourth project contains ROS nodes that run the world in Gazebo, teleop_keyboard node to move the bot and an RTAB Map node that maps the environment. Run "catkin_make" in the main folder. In three seperate terminals, run "roslaunch my_robot world.launch", "roslaunch my_robot teleop.launch" and "roslaunch my_robot mapping.launch". Then, slowly drive the robot around making sure at least 3 loops are completed per room. The generated map and path will be stored in rtabmap.db.
5) Last project contains the final Home Service Robot project that runs the robot in Gazebo, loads "gmapping" package to run SLAM to map the environment and localize the robot. To run the project, clone the repository into ~/Robotics_Software_Engineer. cd to home_service_robot and run "catkin_make". Finally, run the executable "./src/scripts/home_service.sh". Make sure to update the workspace path for this project in the shell scripts found inside "home_service_robot/src/scripts".
